---
sidebar: false
---

# Steering Committee - November 2023

Written by avivace.

**November 4th, 2023**. 4:00 PM - 6:30 PM CEST. Discord VC.

##### Invited

Moderators, Staff, Experts, Outreach, RGBDS maintainers.

##### Partecipants

PinoBatch, avivace, ISSO, Calindro, Duo, nitro2k01, QuangDX, superdisk, kva64, Sylvie, Sanqui


##### About those meetings

Partecipants are asked to fill in discussion points beforehand. The results of these discussions (decisions, suggestions, comments, ..) are reported as the sub items.

Discussion points marked \* were not brought up due to lack of time.

Anyone can reach out in `#meta` on the Discord server to comment/discuss on any of the points reported here.

##### Minutes

-   avivace:

    -   Q to ISSO: RGBDS Rust port plans?
        -   Scope: Full port from the old codebase, can’t be 1to1
        -   Architecture design in progress
        -   Motivation: C not attractive anymore for potential contributors. Showing its age. Technicalities (std::vector). Rust is fancier, more active community.
        -   (Personal) De-risking/Viability study
        -   Question from Pino: will this affect availability of binaries?
    -   Homebrew Hub: developments and expanding to NES \*
    -   Gbcompo23: [...] \*
    -   Funding: how to? \*
    -   Creating the steering committee: Roles? \*
    -   Q to Sanqui: how to run these meetings? Minutes \*

-   ISSOtm:

    -   Difficulties finding contributors
        -   Pan Docs, RGBDS, ASM Tutorial are lacking
        -   AV: Homebrew Hub is OK
        -   Quality barrier too high? Is our PR review process too much?
            -   Possible (partial) solution = avoid nitpicking
            -   Interesting actionable by DUO: give reviews in “steps”, avoid attacking a PR with everything all at once.
            -   If making follow-up changes separately, be upfront about that in the initial PR to avoid the contributor feeling “the rug pulled under their feet”
            -   Put a hard cap on the PR’s “TTL” before being merged (e.g. 3 weeks), and avoid minor changes as the deadline looms closer
        -   How to handle contributors going silent?
        -   “Better merge something incomplete to beg correction work, rather than drop everything done thus far”
        -   Promoting a “Bug Day”?
    -   Moving projects to SourceHut? \*

-   Sanqui:

    -   Overview of Wikidata and the possibility of contributing Homebrew Hub information to Wikidata
        -   Add Ext ID in the game metadata schema and point it to Wikidata entry. Possibly populate others.
        -   HHub - cartridges/published games/publishers

-   DUO:

    -   Remarks and compliments on the great state of gbdev.
    -   Promote PRs that need to be worked on, but also promote work that _has_ been done “for cred” - Start using #feedback again.

-   nitro2k01:

    -   Potentially add long a term solution for the IRC bridge as a point/ responsibility.
        -   Someone other than @avivace needs to volunteer (=> @nitro2k01) and get SSH access and/or a webhook token to delegate the responsibility of handling the bridge
    -   Future of the forums \*

-   Kva64:

    -   social media handling — general outline and feedback request
        -   Not only game releases/showcase content can be shared, but projects themselves may have cool milestones to share
        -   Allow developers, maintainers… to raise up things that can be promoted, so people helping with social media don’t have to “chase” those. Should those go in #showcase? Should #showcase be split?
        -   Encourage (PSA?) developers to post in #showcase
            Move all showcase channels to a separate category, and rename “showcase” to “wip-showcase”?
            Split #releases into e.g. #releases-games and #releases-tooling
        -   To discuss in #meta: opt-in/opt-out status of showcase channels. A suggestion: make sharing opt-out in #releases-\*, and opt-in in #wip-showcase
    -   policy on sharing and promoting commercial projects?
        -   DUO : do not shy away from promoting them because it’s a motivation to some; however, restrictions should be put to avoid being taken advantage of
        -   Should the cooldown (if any) should apply per project, per user, ..?
    -   need for using any newly emerging social media platforms (e.g threads and bluesky)?
        -   Threads and Bluesky currently have very little reach, so maybe not
        -   Other platforms (e.g. Instagram): maybe, but this may require more people to handle them
        -   Creating a channel to coordinate them

-   Sylvie:
    -   Q to ISSO: Continue improving existing C++ while Rust progresses?
        -   C to C++ in parallel
        -   Talk separately (and later) about whether we want to upstream the port, and if yes, the roadmap (responsibility & task distribution, etc.)

