# Steering Committee - March 2024

Minutes curated by Sanqui and avivace

  
---

**Participants**: avivace, Sanqui, Calindro, superdisk, ISSOtm, nitro, Pino, asie, tobias, DUO, Sylvie, kva

**Where**: Discord gbdev, `#sc-meeting` voice channel

**When**: March 10th 2024, 6:30 PM - 8:00 PM CET (UTC +1)

[Last meeting minutes](https://gbdev.io/meetings/2023-11-04-sc.html)

Discussion points are ordered by priority.


---

### Updates

avivace:
- Creation of a new Outreach issue tracker / board to coordinate social media posting etc.
- Asking for help (and funding) gb-asm-tutorial
- matomo statistics shows growing interest in gb-asm-tutorial
- Unblocking gb-asm-tutorial

---

### Discussion


nitro2k01

- Future of the forums
	- Problems
		- Not mobile friendly
		- People don’t want to make another account -> offer login using Discord or GitHub
	- When/if migrating to a new system, what do with old posts?
		- Migrate to new? (lose URLs)
		- Set old in read-only
	- Threads on Discord <-> Forum ?
	- Options
		- Leave it the way it is
		- Could switch forum systems
		- Discourse is very popular, but JS heavy
		- Migrate to nesdev as they would be willing to help
		- Migrate to [https://forum.gbadev.net/](https://forum.gbadev.net/), which uses Flaskbb
			- Recycling logins may make the forum more attractive (e.g. nesdev or gbadev may have users overlap)


ISSOtm:

- RGBDS (and other projects?): onboarding friction ([https://matklad.github.io/2021/02/06/ARCHITECTURE.md.html](https://matklad.github.io/2021/02/06/ARCHITECTURE.md.html) for inspiration)
	- Projects are complex and “unapproachable”
	- Adding examples to CONTRIBUTING.md?
	- Which projects don’t have CONTRIBUTING.md?
	- Write down what is expected of a maintainer!
	- Finding some time to write down the “vision” Isso has for the Rust port (what needs to be done, how, etc.)
- Prioritization, among and within…
	- gb-asm-tutorial (1)
	- Pan Docs (2)
	- rsgbds (RGBDS on “life support” with Sylvie maintaining) (last)
- Next meeting:
	- Moving projects to SourceHut?
    
avivace
- FOSDEM feedback
	- Fosdem25. Who wants to join and come in the “gbdev” delegation?
	- Isso wants to give a talk
		- RGBDS
			- “Breaking changes and how to live with them”
			- Working from a codebase from the 90’s
		- Tutorial?

kva64
- Promoting usage of public domain/creative commons/”use as long as you give credit” assets among community members (open related issue on github)
- How do deal with “drama” against users/companies/etc we want to shout out: consult with outreach team + use best judgment
