import{_ as e,o as i,c as t,e as o}from"./app-8fb69ce4.js";const a={},l=o('<h1 id="steering-committee-november-2023" tabindex="-1"><a class="header-anchor" href="#steering-committee-november-2023" aria-hidden="true">#</a> Steering Committee - November 2023</h1><p>Written by avivace.</p><p><strong>November 4th, 2023</strong>. 15:00 — 17:30 UTC. Discord VC.</p><h5 id="invited" tabindex="-1"><a class="header-anchor" href="#invited" aria-hidden="true">#</a> Invited</h5><p>Moderators, Staff, Experts, Outreach, RGBDS maintainers.</p><h5 id="partecipants" tabindex="-1"><a class="header-anchor" href="#partecipants" aria-hidden="true">#</a> Partecipants</h5><p>PinoBatch, avivace, ISSO, Calindro, Duo, nitro2k01, QuangDX, superdisk, kva64, Sylvie, Sanqui</p><h5 id="about-those-meetings" tabindex="-1"><a class="header-anchor" href="#about-those-meetings" aria-hidden="true">#</a> About those meetings</h5><p>Participants were asked to fill in discussion points beforehand. The results of these discussions (decisions, suggestions, comments, etc.) are reported as subitems.</p><p>Discussion points marked * were not brought up due to lack of time.</p><p>Anyone can reach out in <code>#meta</code> on the Discord server to comment/discuss on any of the points reported here.</p><h5 id="minutes" tabindex="-1"><a class="header-anchor" href="#minutes" aria-hidden="true">#</a> Minutes</h5><ul><li><p>avivace:</p><ul><li>Q to ISSO: RGBDS Rust port plans? <ul><li>Scope: Full port from the old codebase, can’t be 1-to-1</li><li>Architecture design in progress</li><li>Motivation: C not attractive anymore for potential contributors. Showing its age. Technicalities (std::vector). Rust is fancier, more active community.</li><li>(Personal) De-risking/Viability study</li><li>Question from Pino: will this affect availability of binaries?</li></ul></li><li>Homebrew Hub: developments and expanding to NES *</li><li>Gbcompo23: [...] *</li><li>Funding: how to? *</li><li>Creating the steering committee: Roles? *</li><li>Q to Sanqui: how to run these meetings? Minutes *</li></ul></li><li><p>ISSOtm:</p><ul><li>Difficulties finding contributors <ul><li>Pan Docs, RGBDS, ASM Tutorial are lacking</li><li>AV: Homebrew Hub is OK</li><li>Quality barrier too high? Is our PR review process too much? <ul><li>Possible (partial) solution = avoid nitpicking</li><li>Interesting actionable by DUO: give reviews in “steps”, avoid attacking a PR with everything all at once.</li><li>If making follow-up changes separately, be upfront about that in the initial PR to avoid the contributor feeling “the rug pulled under their feet”</li><li>Put a hard cap on the PR’s “TTL” before being merged (e.g. 3 weeks), and avoid minor changes as the deadline looms closer</li></ul></li><li>How to handle contributors going silent?</li><li>“Better merge something incomplete to beg correction work, rather than drop everything done thus far”</li><li>Promoting a “Bug Day”?</li></ul></li><li>Moving projects to SourceHut? *</li></ul></li><li><p>Sanqui:</p><ul><li>Overview of Wikidata and the possibility of contributing Homebrew Hub information to Wikidata <ul><li>Add Ext ID in the game metadata schema and point it to Wikidata entry. Possibly populate others.</li><li>HHub - cartridges/published games/publishers</li></ul></li></ul></li><li><p>DUO:</p><ul><li>Remarks and compliments on the great state of gbdev.</li><li>Promote PRs that need to be worked on, but also promote work that <em>has</em> been done “for cred” - Start using #feedback again.</li></ul></li><li><p>nitro2k01:</p><ul><li>Potentially add a long-term solution for the IRC bridge as a point/responsibility. <ul><li>Someone other than @avivace needs to volunteer (=&gt; @nitro2k01) and get SSH access and/or a webhook token to delegate the responsibility of handling the bridge</li></ul></li><li>Future of the forums *</li></ul></li><li><p>Kva64:</p><ul><li>Social media handling — general outline and feedback request <ul><li>Not only game releases/showcase content can be shared, but projects themselves may have cool milestones to share</li><li>Allow developers, maintainers, etc. to raise up things that can be promoted, so people helping with social media don’t have to “chase” those. Should those go in #showcase? Should #showcase be split?</li><li>Encourage (PSA?) developers to post in #showcase Move all showcase channels to a separate category, and rename “showcase” to “wip-showcase”? Split #releases into e.g. #releases-games and #releases-tooling</li><li>To discuss in #meta: opt-in/opt-out status of showcase channels. A suggestion: make sharing opt-out in #releases-*, and opt-in in #wip-showcase</li></ul></li><li>Policy on sharing and promoting commercial projects? <ul><li>DUO: do not shy away from promoting them because it’s a motivation to some; however, restrictions should be put to avoid being taken advantage of</li><li>Should the cooldown (if any) apply per project, per user...?</li></ul></li><li>Need for using any newly-emerging social media platforms (e.g. Threads and Bluesky)? <ul><li>Threads and Bluesky currently have very little reach, so maybe not</li><li>Other platforms (e.g. Instagram): maybe, but this may require more people to handle them</li><li>Creating a channel to coordinate them</li></ul></li></ul></li><li><p>Sylvie:</p><ul><li>Q to ISSO: Continue improving existing C++ while Rust progresses? <ul><li>C to C++ in parallel</li><li>Talk separately (and later) about whether we want to upstream the port, and if yes, the roadmap (responsibility &amp; task distribution, etc.)</li></ul></li></ul></li></ul>',13),n=[l];function s(r,h){return i(),t("div",null,n)}const c=e(a,[["render",s],["__file","2023-11-04-sc.html.vue"]]);export{c as default};
