import{_ as i,c as t,a,o}from"./app-h3d7cp0t.js";const l={};function s(n,e){return o(),t("div",null,e[0]||(e[0]=[a('<h1 id="steering-committee-march-2024" tabindex="-1"><a class="header-anchor" href="#steering-committee-march-2024"><span>Steering Committee - March 2024</span></a></h1><p>Minutes curated by Sanqui and avivace</p><hr><p><strong>Participants</strong>: avivace, Sanqui, Calindro, superdisk, ISSOtm, nitro, Pino, asie, tobias, DUO, Sylvie, kva</p><p><strong>Where</strong>: Discord gbdev, <code>#sc-meeting</code> voice channel</p><p><strong>When</strong>: March 10th 2024, 6:30 PM - 8:00 PM CET (UTC +1)</p><p><a href="https://gbdev.io/meetings/2023-11-04-sc.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Last meeting minutes</a></p><p>Discussion points are ordered by priority.</p><hr><h3 id="updates" tabindex="-1"><a class="header-anchor" href="#updates"><span>Updates</span></a></h3><p>avivace:</p><ul><li>Creation of a new Outreach issue tracker / board to coordinate social media posting etc.</li><li>Asking for help (and funding) gb-asm-tutorial</li><li>matomo statistics shows growing interest in gb-asm-tutorial</li><li>Unblocking gb-asm-tutorial</li></ul><hr><h3 id="discussion" tabindex="-1"><a class="header-anchor" href="#discussion"><span>Discussion</span></a></h3><p>nitro2k01</p><ul><li>Future of the forums <ul><li>Problems <ul><li>Not mobile friendly</li><li>People don’t want to make another account -&gt; offer login using Discord or GitHub</li></ul></li><li>When/if migrating to a new system, what do with old posts? <ul><li>Migrate to new? (lose URLs)</li><li>Set old in read-only</li></ul></li><li>Threads on Discord &lt;-&gt; Forum ?</li><li>Options <ul><li>Leave it the way it is</li><li>Could switch forum systems</li><li>Discourse is very popular, but JS heavy</li><li>Migrate to nesdev as they would be willing to help</li><li>Migrate to <a href="https://forum.gbadev.net/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://forum.gbadev.net/</a>, which uses Flaskbb <ul><li>Recycling logins may make the forum more attractive (e.g. nesdev or gbadev may have users overlap)</li></ul></li></ul></li></ul></li></ul><p>ISSOtm:</p><ul><li>RGBDS (and other projects?): onboarding friction (<a href="https://matklad.github.io/2021/02/06/ARCHITECTURE.md.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://matklad.github.io/2021/02/06/ARCHITECTURE.md.html</a> for inspiration) <ul><li>Projects are complex and “unapproachable”</li><li>Adding examples to CONTRIBUTING.md?</li><li>Which projects don’t have CONTRIBUTING.md?</li><li>Write down what is expected of a maintainer!</li><li>Finding some time to write down the “vision” Isso has for the Rust port (what needs to be done, how, etc.)</li></ul></li><li>Prioritization, among and within… <ul><li>gb-asm-tutorial (1)</li><li>Pan Docs (2)</li><li>rsgbds (RGBDS on “life support” with Sylvie maintaining) (last)</li></ul></li><li>Next meeting: <ul><li>Moving projects to SourceHut?</li></ul></li></ul><p>avivace</p><ul><li>FOSDEM feedback <ul><li>Fosdem25. Who wants to join and come in the “gbdev” delegation?</li><li>Isso wants to give a talk <ul><li>RGBDS <ul><li>“Breaking changes and how to live with them”</li><li>Working from a codebase from the 90’s</li></ul></li><li>Tutorial?</li></ul></li></ul></li></ul><p>kva64</p><ul><li>Promoting usage of public domain/creative commons/”use as long as you give credit” assets among community members (open related issue on github)</li><li>How do deal with “drama” against users/companies/etc we want to shout out: consult with outreach team + use best judgment</li></ul>',22)]))}const c=i(l,[["render",s]]),u=JSON.parse('{"path":"/meetings/2024-03-10-sc2.html","title":"Steering Committee - March 2024","lang":"en-US","frontmatter":{"sidebar":false},"headers":[{"level":3,"title":"Updates","slug":"updates","link":"#updates","children":[]},{"level":3,"title":"Discussion","slug":"discussion","link":"#discussion","children":[]}],"git":{"contributors":[{"name":"Antonio Vivace","username":"","email":"avivace4@gmail.com","commits":1}],"changelog":[{"hash":"622836a4a32354c2e4c168a3406b7dd31050da77","time":1757062682000,"email":"avivace4@gmail.com","author":"Antonio Vivace","message":"home: remove GB Compo 2025 announcement"}]},"filePathRelative":"meetings/2024-03-10-sc2.md"}');export{c as comp,u as data};
